Podman usage with Quarkus article is added (#25701)
quarkusio/quarkus: docs/src/main/asciidoc/podman.adoc

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using Podman with Quarkus

https://podman.io/[Podman] is a daemonless container engine for developing, 
managing, and running OCI Containers on your Linux System or other OS. 

> Podman could be used the same way as Docker with `podman-docker` package. The big andwantage is that you could run Podman as regular Linux user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Podman could be used the same way as Docker with the `podman-docker` package. The big advantage is that you could run Podman as regular Linux user. 
```

Reviewer: I believe it's a ubntu / fedora package. So, it slightly different on mac / windows ,right?

Reviewer: My linux machine run docker as a regular user, so, I would remove the last sentence.

Author: "advantage" sentence removed.

== Installing Podman

> The Podman package is available in several Linux distributions. To install it for your OS, please refer to https://podman.io/getting-started/installation[Podman install guide]. Below is the short instruction for popular Linux distributions. To install, run following commans.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Podman package is available in several Linux distributions. To install it for your OS, please refer to https://podman.io/getting-started/installation[Podman install guide]. Below is the short instruction for popular Linux distributions. To install, run the following commands.
```

.Fedora

[source,bash]
----
sudo dnf install podman podman-docker
----

.Ubuntu (21.04 and later)

[source,bash]
----
sudo apt install podman podman-docker
----

=== After installation

> Podman is a daemonless container engine. Quarkus Dev Services and Testcontainers expect a running Docker daemon listening at a Unix socket. That's why following steps are required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Podman is a daemonless container engine. Most Quarkus Dev Services and Testcontainers expect a running Docker daemon listening at a Unix socket. That's why the following steps are required.
```

[source,bash]
----
# Enable the podman socket with Docker REST API
systemctl --user enable podman.socket --now
# Set the required envvars
export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/user/${UID}/podman/podman.sock
export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true
----

> For detailed explanation, see the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a detailed explanation, see the
```

> https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-devservices-testcontainers-podman/[blog article].

Reviewer: We tend to use the 1 line per sentence rule.

> To make changes permanent, add the exported environment variables to `~/.bashrc` file:

Reviewer: I would rather mention the "init" file from your shell. I'm using zsh, I also know a few fish users.

[source,bash]
----
echo "export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/user/${UID}/podman/podman.sock" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true" >> ~/.bashrc
----

=== Short names of images

> Testcontainers and Quarkus Dev Services also expect the container service they make requests against to be non-interactive. In case you have multiple registries configured in your Docker or Podman configuration, Podman responds with a prompt asking which registry should be used to pull containers from in case the containers pulled are specified by short name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Testcontainers and Quarkus Dev Services also expect the container service they make requests against to be non-interactive. In case you have multiple registries are configured in your Docker or Podman configuration, and when using short image names, Podman responds with a prompt asking which registry should be used to pull the images.
```

////
This guide is maintained in the main Quarkus repository
and pull requests should be submitted there:
https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/tree/main/docs/src/main/asciidoc
////
= Using Podman with Quarkus

> https://podman.io/[Podman] is a daemonless and rootless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on your Linux System or other OS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://podman.io/[Podman] is a daemonless and rootless container engine for developing, managing, and running OCI Containers on your Linux system or other OS.
```

> Podman could be used the same way as Docker with the `podman-docker` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Podman can be used the same way as Docker with the `podman-docker` package.
```

== Installing Podman on Linux

The Podman package is available in several Linux distributions. To install it for your OS, please refer to the  https://podman.io/getting-started/installation[Podman installation guide].

> Below is the short instruction for popular Linux distributions. To install, run the following commands.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Below is a short instruction for popular Linux distributions. To install, run the following commands.
```

.Fedora
[source,bash]
----
sudo dnf install podman podman-docker docker-compose
----
.Ubuntu (21.04 and later)
[source,bash]
----
sudo apt install podman podman-docker docker-compose
----

=== After installation

Podman is a daemonless container engine. Most Quarkus Dev Services and Testcontainers expect a running Docker daemon listening at a Unix socket.
That's why the following steps are required.
[source,bash]
----
# Enable the podman socket with Docker REST API
systemctl --user enable podman.socket --now
# Set the required envvars
export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/user/${UID}/podman/podman.sock
export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true
----

> For a detailed explanation, see the https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-devservices-testcontainers-podman/[blog article].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For a detailed explanation, see this https://quarkus.io/blog/quarkus-devservices-testcontainers-podman/[blog article].
```

> To make changes permanent, add the exported environment variables to the "init" file from your shell. For example, the `bash` shell uses  `~/.bashrc` file:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make changes permanent, add the exported environment variables to the "init" file from your shell. For example, the `bash` shell uses  the `~/.bashrc` file:
```

[source,bash]
----
echo "export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/user/${UID}/podman/podman.sock" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true" >> ~/.bashrc
----

=== Short names of images

Testcontainers and Quarkus Dev Services also expect the container service they make requests against to be non-interactive.
In case you have multiple registries configured in your Docker or Podman configuration, and when using short image names, Podman responds with a prompt asking which registry should be used to pull images.

> You can disable this prompt by setting the `short-name-mode="disabled"` configuration property of Podman in `/etc/containers/registries.conf`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend you to avoid short names and always use fully specified names including the registry.
If, for some reason, it is not an option for you, you can disable this prompt by setting the `short-name-mode="disabled"` configuration property of Podman in `/etc/containers/registries.conf`.
```

== Other operating systems

> Containers are really Linux. As such, Linux containers cannot run natively on MacOS or Windows.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Containers are really Linux. As such, Linux containers cannot run natively on macOS or Windows.
```

Therefore, the containers must run in a Linux virtual machine (VM), and a Podman client interacts with that VM.
So, native hypervisor subsystem and virtualization software is used to run Linux VM on the OS.

> And then containers run in this VM.

Reviewer 3: this last period is not very clear, I would suggest merging it with the previous sentence.

> .MacOS

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.macOS
```

> Mac users could install Podman through https://brew.sh/[Homebrew]. Once you have set up `brew`, you can use the `brew install` command to install Podman and `docker-compose`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
macOS users can install Podman through https://brew.sh/[Homebrew]. Once you have set up `brew`, you can use the `brew install` command to install Podman and `docker-compose`:
```

[source,bash]
----
brew install podman
brew install docker-compose
podman machine init
podman machine start
alias docker='podman'
----

> For more details, please see https://podman.io/getting-started/installation#macos[Official podman documenation] and this https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/replace-docker-podman-macos[article].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more details, please see the https://podman.io/getting-started/installation#macos[official Podman documentation] and this https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/replace-docker-podman-macos[article].
```

[source,bash]
----
echo "export DOCKER_HOST=unix:///run/user/${UID}/podman/podman.sock" >> ~/.bashrc
echo "export TESTCONTAINERS_RYUK_DISABLED=true" >> ~/.bashrc
----

=== Short names of images

Testcontainers and Quarkus Dev Services also expect the container service they make requests against to be non-interactive.
In case you have multiple registries configured in your Docker or Podman configuration, and when using short image names, Podman responds with a prompt asking which registry should be used to pull images.

We recommend you to avoid short names and always use fully specified names including the registry.
If, for some reason, it is not an option for you, you can disable this prompt by setting the `short-name-mode="disabled"` configuration property of Podman in `/etc/containers/registries.conf`.

== Other operating systems

Containers are really Linux. As such, Linux containers cannot run natively on macOS or Windows.
Therefore, the containers must run in a Linux virtual machine (VM), and a Podman client interacts with that VM.
So a native hypervisor subsystem or virtualization software is used to run the Linux VM on the OS, and then containers are run within this VM.

> And then containers run in this VM.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
(this one line is redundant now)
